Welcome back.
In this video,
I will show you how you can model whole
sentences using engram probabilities.
This will allow us later to generate text.
So let's find the probability of
a sentence or an entire sequence of words.
How would you calculate the probability
of the sentence, the teacher drinks tea.
To get started, let's refresh your memory
of the conditional probability and
chain rule.
Here, the conditional probability
is a probability of word B.
If word A appeared just before
B you can express the rule for
the conditional probability in terms
of the joint probability of A and
B, which is P (A,B).
So the probability of B given A is
equal to the probability of A and
B divided by the probability of A.
You can rearrange this rule so
the probability of A and
B is equal to the probability of
A times the probability of B given A.
This can be generalized to the chain rule
which describes the joint probability of
longer sequences.
So the probability of a sentence
with word A followed by word B
followed by word C and word D is
equal to the probability of word A.
Times the probability of word B
given word A times the probability
of word C given the word A followed by B.
Times the probability of word D given
by words A followed by B followed by C.
That was a long one, but
it should make intuitive sense as
your eyes follow along the equation.
The probability of each successive word
is the product of the probabilities
of all words that came
before it's in the sequence.
You can now apply the chain rule
to answer your question about
the probability of the sentence,
the teacher drinks tea.
The probability of the sentence,
the teacher drinks tea,
is equal to the probability of D
times the probability of teacher
given D times the probability of drinks
given the teacher times the probability
of tea given the teacher drinks.
So you see the ideal scenario
where you actually have
enough data in the training corpus to
calculate all of these probabilities.
However, this direct approach to sequence
probability has its limitations.
Since natural language is highly
variable your query sentence and even
longer parts of your sentence are very
unlikely to appear in the training corpus.
Let's use the chain rule probability for
the sentence, the teacher drinks tea.
The formula would look like this.
For the final term look for
the counts of both the input sentence,
the teacher drinks tea, and
its prefix, the teacher drinks.
Since neither of them is likely to exist
in the training corpus their counts are 0.
The formula for the probability of the
entire sentence can't give a probability
estimate in this situation.
As the sentence gets longer, the
likelihood that more and more words will
occur next to each other in this exact
order becomes smaller and smaller.
So the likelihood that
the teacher drinks appears in
the corpus is smaller than
the probability of the word drinks.
What if instead of looking for
all the words before tea,
you just consider the previous
word which is drinks in this case.
This is what those
calculations would look like.
The probability of teacher given D.
The probability of drinks given teacher.
And the probability of tea given drinks.
If you multiply these together you'd get
an approximation of the whole sentence,
the teacher drinks tea.
Once the Bigram approximation is applied,
the formula to estimate the sentence
probability is simplified.
So now it's the product of conditional
probabilities of words and their immediate
predecessors, in other words, the product
of the probabilities of Bigrams.
You just apply the Markov assumption
instead of looking for all the words,
you just looked at one previous word.
You also could have considered
the two previous words or
any n number of previous words.
The Markov assumption states that
the probability of each word depends
only on its limited history of length n.
It ignores all the words this
came before specified length N.
So for Bigrams,
you approximate the conditional
probability of a word Wn given
the history W1 to Wn- 1 by
the conditional probability of
the word Wn given word Wn- 1.
That means you only need to
look at the previous word.
With N-grams, you'll only look at n-
1 previous words when calculating
the conditional probability
in the chain rule.
The by ground formula to estimate the
sentence probability is now the product of
conditional probabilities of the words and
their immediate predecessors.
As you may recall, this is in
contrast with naive Bayes where you
approximated sentence probability
without considering any word history.
The first term of the Bigram formula
relies on the unigram probability of
the first word in the sentence.
That's coming up next.
You now know how to compute
the probability of a sentence given N-gram
probabilities.
Next I'll show you how to compute these
N-gram probabilities from a corpus.